README.md, before:

# SLMC-CT-AUX
demo for efficient method for SLMC CT-AUX update

Optimized the time complexity of this [paper](https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.96.161102).

This demo shows an algorithm to do simulation on SLMC of CT-AUX model more efficiently, where the asymptotic time complexity for one step decreases from O(nm) to O(m^2 + m logn).

To run this demo, just do the following after cloning this demo and entering the directory:
```bash
mkdir build
cd build && mkdir data
cmake ..
make
./SLMC-demo.out
```

SLMC-demo is a test run for the algorithm, generated by splayTest.cpp. It runs simulations over a set of values for n, from 10 to 3000, and compares the CPU time cost between original O(nm) and proposed O(m^2 + m logn) algorithms. It can be found that when n is large enough(which corresponds to low enough temperature), our technique is definitely faster than the original algorithm.

<!-- two simulations, one with at least n = 30, and runs for 1000 MC steps, and checking the weight difference from the exact weight: a polynomial function of the absolute distance between each pair of imaginary time tau. Another is an efficiency test, runs 10^4 steps with at least n = 3000, to show its efficiency over the O(nm) method in cpu time, by default it should be about 10 times faster, and the speedup will be larger for larger n. -->

By modifying the parameters in splayTest.cpp, more cases can be tested: the order for J, L functions and f function can be modified by mJ, mL, mF, the range of tau that can be taken can be modified by beta. Try it out and find the speedup for large n!

Commit message:

* Added link to arXiv:2106.11645 * Changed minimum required version of CMake to 3.1 * Changed CXX standard version to C++14 * Removed ".out" suffix from splayTest * Changed the output directory of splayTest from data to the current directory

README.md, after:

# SLMC-CT-AUX

Demo for an efficient method for SLMC CT-AUX update proposed in our paper:

  * Ruixiao Cao and Synge Todo, "Fast-update in self-learning algorithm for continuous-time quantum Monte Carlo," [arXiv:2106.11645](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.11645),

which improves the time complexity of the SLMC algorithm proposed in this [paper](https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.96.161102).

This demo shows an algorithm to do simulation on SLMC of CT-AUX model more efficiently, where the asymptotic time complexity for one step decreases from O(nm) to O(m^2 + m logn).

To compile this demo, you need CMake (version 3.1 or higher) and a C++14 compiler.

To run this demo, do the following after cloning this demo and entering the directory:

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
./SLMC-demo
```

SLMC-demo is a test run for the algorithm generated by splayTest.cpp. It runs simulations over a set of values for n, from 10 to 3000, and compares the CPU time cost between original O(nm) and proposed O(m^2 + m logn) algorithms. It can be found that when n is large enough(which corresponds to low enough temperature), our technique is definitely faster than the original algorithm.

<!-- two simulations, one with at least n = 30, and runs for 1000 MC steps, and checking the weight difference from the exact weight: a polynomial function of the absolute distance between each pair of imaginary time tau. Another is an efficiency test, runs 10^4 steps with at least n = 3000, to show its efficiency over the O(nm) method in cpu time, by default it should be about 10 times faster, and the speedup will be larger for larger n. -->

By modifying the parameters in splayTest.cpp, more cases can be tested: the order for J, L, and f functions can be modified by mJ, mL, mF. The range of tau can be modified by beta. Try it out and find the speedup for large n!
